{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 LucidaSansUnicode;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red40\green43\blue30;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 BEGFE: Bayesian Estimation for Gene Family Evolution\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf2 Copyright (C) 2011 Liang Liu \
\
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200
\cf0 \
This program implements a Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm to estimate the posterior probability distribution of the birth and death rate parameter and the numbers of gene copies at the internodes of the phylogenetic tree.  In addition, BEGFE can simulate gene family data under the birth and death model.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200

\b \cf0 Compiling the program \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200

\b0 \cf0 The source code and Windows executables are available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://code.google.com/p/begfe/}}. To compile the program from source code, type \'93make\'94 and hit \'93return\'94 under the directory \'93src\'94. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Running the program
\f2\b0\fs23 \
./begfe controlfile\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Examples: \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200

\b0 \cf0 Two control files are included in the package. The control file \'93controlsim\'94 is used to simulate gene family data. \
./begfe controlsim\
This will produce two files; sim1 and sim1.true. The simulated gene family dataset is saved in the file sim1, while sim1.true contains the true values of the parameters in the Bayesian model. \
The other control file \'93control1\'94 is for carrying out the Bayesian analysis of the gene family data. Type \'93./begfe control1\'94 and hit \'93return\'94. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200

\b \cf0 Output\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200

\b0 \cf0 There are two output files; sim1.out and sim1.pvalue. The MCMC output for all parameters is saved in sim1.out. Each column in sim1.out represents the posterior distribution of a particular parameter in the birth and death model. The parameters such as the birth and death rate are estimated by the Bayesian means, i.e., the averages of the columns after discarding the burn-in period. \
The Bayesian p-values (PPP) for all gene families in the dataset are saved in sim1.pvalue. The average of a column in sim1.pvalue is the Bayesian p-values for a particular gene family. Of course, the burn-in period must be discarded.\
}